---
directions:
year: 1915
title: Hannah goes to School
teaser: Hannah the Horse realised that the large brick building with huge windows that was being built next to her field was finally finished, the noise of sawing and hammering had been replaced by a new sound.
---

Hannah the Horse realised that the large brick building with huge windows that was being built next to her field was finally finished, the noise of sawing and hammering had been replaced by a new sound. She listened and realised it was the sound of children laughing and chatting excitedly. She trotted round and poked her head through the railings just as the “statue of a man’s head and shoulders was being unveiled by an important looking gentleman in a top hat. He coughed and started to speak to the gathered crowd.

> “This is David Livingstone, explorer, scientist, anti-slavery campaigner and missionary who started work in a mill at seven years old. He is the perfect role model for the pupils of Livingstone School.”

Everyone clapped and cheered then the celebrations began. Hannah was mesmerised to see girls in white dresses dancing round a maypole. The rainbow ribbons wove in and out making beautiful patterns.The gate swung open and no-one noticed as Hannah trotted in for a closer look. She peered into one of the great big windows and saw children sitting neatly in rows showing visitors how neatly the could write on their slates. Beyond that was an open quadrangle where children were doing drill, marching on the spot and waving their arms in a precise formation. Hannah thought how lucky the children starting at the new Livingstone school in 1915 were.

---

Livingstone was the second Council school to be built in Mossley. With large windows and outside quadrangle it was described as an open air school and a PALACE OF HEALTH.

Something to look for: The plaque
Photo – school scanned.
Drawing – the Livingstone plaque
