---
year: 1907
title: Hannah visits Valeside
teaser: Hannah snorted loudly as she pulled the cart full of milk churns up Old Brow.
---

Hannah snorted loudly as she pulled the cart full of milk churns up Old Brow. She stopped at Valeside while people came out to fetch their milk and she watched a lady kneeling in front of her house scrubbing her step with a donkey stone. She was obviously very proud about keeping her step clean. There was a dip in the step from her scrubbing it so often.

In the next house the door was open and Hannah could see a man sat in front of the fire in a tin bath. She heard a child’s voice pipe up “Dad please don’t stay in the bath too long, there is mum and the other four to go before me. I hate that just because I’m the youngest I always get the cold dirty water!!”

As Hannah got to the last house in the row she saw the pig bin was waiting to be collected. A tasty carrot top poked out the top she just grabbed it when a loud beep made her rear up and the pig bin went flying. No-one noticed though because everyone was staring at a metal contraption came roaring and beeping down the cobbled hill. It was a motor car!! The first one that Hannah had ever seen..

---

Something to look for – dips in steps made by donkey stones Eli Whalley in Ashton, founded in the 1890s, produced 2.5m donkey stones a year during its heyday in the 1930s but closed in 1979.

Photo - Donkeystone photo or Valeside shot
Maybe use “I remember going to tea at my aunties. They had no bathroom and their bath was in the kitchen, not a tin bath but a proper bath with a removable worktop over it, the toilet was outside.”
