---
year: 1919
title: Hannah visits the recreation Ground
teaser: Hannah was in Mossley recreation ground, her cart was piled high with buns. Everyone was in a jolly mood and dressed in their finest clothes.
---

Hannah was in Mossley recreation ground, her cart was piled high with buns. Everyone was in a jolly mood and dressed in their finest clothes. The trees were strung with bunting and there were bands playing, maypole and country dancing to Mossley Band, lots of singing and a huge bonfire. She watched a tug of war where the Police triumphed over the Gas Works Men in the final,  There was sack racing, frog racing and an egg and spoon race. People were celebrating the end of the war.

Hannah was glad the war was over. She remembered in 1914 when she was brought to this same place with all the other horses in Mossley to be sold to fight in the war. It was so busy that the police had to lock the park gates to stop people coming in. Her friend Fred, the Co-op delivery horse was one of the seven horses that were bought by the army for £40. Fred had gone to Belgium and he still hadn’t come back. Hannah still missed him.

Thinking about Fred made her very sad but then a small girl came over and fed Hannah a bun. This really cheered her up and she thought perhaps Fred would come back to Mossley one day.

Photos: Maypole photo and poster about event in Mossley park (Ann has already)

Fact: Gun from WW1 displayed then sold in WW2 for metal

A 77mm German field gun was presented to the town when £43,000 was raised in 1918 during War Weapons Week. The target had been £40,000 in 8 days. The gun was displayed in the park unitl??? When the council decided to sell the old German Gun for scrap.

There have been community events held here for many years – have you been to any?
